1. Construct an ER diagram.
2. List your assumptions and clearly indicate the cardinality mappings as well as
   any role indicators in your ER diagram.
3. Map the ERD in the relational model corresponding to the described application. 
4. Also make sure to have the primary keys and foreign keys clearly


The Hudson Engineering Group (HEG) has contacted you to create a conceptual 
model whose application will meet the expected database requirements for the 
company’s training program. The HEG administrator gives you the description (see 
below) of the training group’s operating environment. The HEG has 12 instructors 
and can handle up to 30 trainees per class. HEG offers five “advanced technology” 
courses, each of which may generate several classes. If a class has fewer than 10 
trainees, it will be cancelled. Therefore, it is possible for a course not to generate 
any classes. Each class is taught by one instructor. Each instructor may teach up to 
two classes or may be assigned to do research only. Each trainee may take up to two 
classes per year.



13000121058					ER DIAGRAM FOR HUDSON ENGINEERING GROUP					CA1
13000121058				RELATIONAL MODEL FOR HUDSON ENGINEERING GROUP				CA1

ASSUMPTIONS
1. An instructor can teach zero or more classes. According to the question the maximum number of class can be 2.
2. A class can be taught by one instructor at a time.
3. An instructor can have zero or more trainee. According to the question the maximum number of trainee can be 60 as one instructor can teach maximum 2 classes. A class can have maximum 30 trainee.
4. A trainee can be taught by one instructor in a class.
5. A trainee can enroll in multiple classes. The maximum number of classes is 2 in a year.
6. A trainee can be male or female.
7. A class has unique trainee. A class can have minimum 10 and maximum 30 trainees.
8. A course can be given to multiple classes.
9. A class can be given for one course at a time.
10.A course can be optional or mandatory depending on the prerequisites.